semaphore:-A semaphore controls access to a shared resource through the use of a counter.
 If the counter is greater than zero, then access is allowed. If it is zero, then access is denied. 
What the counter is counting are permits that allow access to the shared resource. 
Thus, to access the resource, a thread must be granted a permit from the semaphore.


Agile SDLC model is a combination of iterative and incremental process models with focus on process adaptability 
and customer satisfaction by rapid delivery of working software product. Agile Methods break the product into 
small incremental builds. These builds are provided in iterations. Each iteration typically lasts from about 
one to three weeks. Every iteration involves cross functional teams working simultaneously on various areas 
like -

Planning
Requirements Analysis
Design
Coding
Unit Testing and
Acceptance Testing.


Find:
$ find . -name thisName   # print all files with name:
                                         # thisName starting in current dir
               $ find . -type f          # print all files starting in current dir
               $ find . -type d          # print all files starting in current dir
               $ find . -type d -date    # print all directories starting in
               # current dir and the last modification time
               $ find . -type d -length  # print all directories starting in
                                         # current dir and length of the file
Grep:-

-c:-print a count of matching lines for each input file

-l:- instead print the name of each input file from which output would normally have been printed.
 The scanning will stop on the first match

-w:-Select only those lines containing matches that form whole words.

-q:-Quiet; do not write anything to standard output. Exit immediately with zero status if any match is found,
 even if an error was detected


HAshset:
equals method:- Compares the specified object with this set for equality.

Abstract Class:Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to 
the user.Another way, it shows only essential things to the user and hides the internal details, for example,
sending SMS where you type the text and send the message. You don't know the internal processing about the
message delivery.
An abstract class must be declared with an abstract keyword.
It can have abstract and non-abstract methods.
It cannot be instantiated.
It can have constructors and static methods also.
It can have final methods which will force the subclass not to change the body of the method.

MVC:-Model–View–Controller (usually known as MVC) is an architectural pattern commonly used for developing 
user interfaces that divides an application into three interconnected parts. This is done to separate internal
representations of information from the ways information is presented to and accepted from the user.


Hibernate:- It is an open source Object Relational Mapping(ORM) tool that is used to store,manipulate and retrieve data from database.
ORM: ORM is an acronym for Object/Relational mapping. It is a programming strategy to map object with the data stored in the database.
 It simplifies data creation, data manipulation, and data access.

Web Services: The Web Service is a standard software system used for communication between two devices (client and server) over the network
Web services provide a common platform for various applications written in different languages to communicate with each other over the network.

Explain different HTTP methods supported by RESTful web services?
--> Enlisted below are some common HTTP methods along with their functions that are supported by RESTful web services.

GET: Read-only access to the resource.
PUT: Creation of new resource.
DELETE: Removal of a resource.
POST: Update of an existing resource.
OPTIONS: Get supported operations on the resource.
HEAD: Returns HTTP header only, nobody.

Difference between string and string buffer?
-->String and StringBuffer both are the classes which operate on strings. StringBuffer class is the peer class of the class String.
The object of  String class is of fixed length. The object of the StringBuffer class is growable. The basic difference between String 
and StringBuffer is that the object of the “String” class is immutable. The object of the class “StringBuffer” mutable. String class 
consumes more memory while string buffer consumes less.String uses string constant pool and string buffer uses heap memory.String class 
is slow during concatenation while string buffer is faster. 

Difference between parallel and distributed computing?
--> The main difference between parallel and distributed computing is that parallel computing allows multiple processors to execute
tasks simultaneously while distributed computing divides a single task between multiple computers to achieve a common goal.